en: add pd-recover doc (#250)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/pd-recover.md

---

> title: Use PD Recover to Recover the PD cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Use PD Recover to Recover the PD Cluster
```

> title: Use PD Recover to Recover the PD Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Use PD Recover to Restore the PD Cluster
```

summary: Learn how to use PD Recover to recover the PD cluster.
category: reference
---

> # Use PD Recover to Recover the PD cluster

Author: ```suggestion
# Use PD Recover to Recover the PD Cluster
```

> # Use PD Recover to Recover the PD Cluster

Reviewer 2: ditto

> [PD Recover](https://pingcap.com/docs-cn/stable/reference/tools/pd-recover) is a disaster recovery tool of PD, used to recover the PD cluster which cannot start or provide services normally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[PD Recover](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/tools/pd-recover) is a disaster recovery tool of [PD](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/architecture/#placement-driver-server), used to recover the PD cluster which cannot start or provide services normally.
```

## Download PD Recover

1. Download the official TiDB package:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    wget https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```

    In the command above, `${version}` is the version of the TiDB cluster, such as `v4.0.0-rc`.

2. Unpack the TiDB package for installation:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tar -xzf tidb-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```

    `pd-recover` is in the `tidb-${version}-linux-amd64/bin` directory.

## Recover the PD cluster

This section introduces how to recover the PD cluster using PD Recover.

### Get Cluster ID

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace} -o='go-template={{.status.clusterID}}{{"\n"}}'
```

Example:

```
kubectl get tc test -n test -o='go-template={{.status.clusterID}}{{"\n"}}'
6821434242797747735
```

### Get Alloc ID

> When you use `pd-recover` to recover the PD cluster, you need to specify `alloc-id` which is larger than the largest allocated ID (`Alloc ID`) of the original cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use `pd-recover` to recover the PD cluster, you need to specify `alloc-id` which should be larger than the largest allocated ID (`Alloc ID`) of the original cluster.
```

> When you use `pd-recover` to recover the PD cluster, you need to specify `alloc-id` which should be larger than the largest allocated ID (`Alloc ID`) of the original cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use `pd-recover` to recover the PD cluster, you need to specify `alloc-id`. The value of `alloc-id` must be larger than the largest allocated ID (`Alloc ID`) of the original cluster.
```

1. Access the Prometheus monitoring data of the TiDB cluster by taking steps in [Access the monitoring data](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md#access-the-monitoring-data).

> 2. Enter `pd_cluster_id` in the input box and click the `Execute` button to make a query. Get the largest value in query result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter `pd_cluster_id` in the input box and click the `Execute` button to make a query. Get the largest value in the query result.
```

> 3. Multiply the largest value in the query result by `100`. This multiplied value is the `alloc-id` value specified when using `pd-recover`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Multiply the largest value in the query result by `100`. Use the multiplied value as the `alloc-id` value specified when using `pd-recover`.
```

> ### Recover the PD Pod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Restore the PD Pod
```

1. Delete the Pod of the PD cluster.

    Execute the following command to set the value of `spec.pd.replicas` to `0`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

>     Because the PD cluster is in an abnormal state, TiDB Operator cannot synchronize the change above to PD StatefulSet. You need to execute the following command to set the value of PD StatefulSet `spec.replicas` to `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Because the PD cluster is in an abnormal state, TiDB Operator cannot synchronize the change above to the PD StatefulSet. You need to execute the following command to set the `spec.replicas` of the PD StatefulSet to `0`.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl edit sts ${cluster_name}-pd -n ${namespace}
    ```

    Execute the following command to confirm that the PD Pod is deleted:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl get pod -n ${namespace}
    ```

> 2. After confirming that all PD Pods are deleted, execute the following command to delete the PVC bound to the PD Pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. After confirming that all PD Pods are deleted, execute the following command to delete the PVCs bound to the PD Pods:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl delete pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/component=pd,app.kubernetes.io/instance=${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

> 3. After the PVC is deleted, increase the capacity of the PD cluster to one Pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After the PVCs are deleted, scale out the PD cluster to one Pod:
```

    Execute the following command to set the value of `spec.pd.replicas` to `1`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

>     Because the PD cluster is in an abnormal state, TiDB Operator cannot synchronize the change above to PD StatefulSet. You need to execute the following command to set the value of PD StatefulSet `spec.replicas` to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Because the PD cluster is in an abnormal state, TiDB Operator cannot synchronize the change above to the PD StatefulSet. You need to execute the following command to set the `spec.replicas` of the PD StatefulSet to `1`.
```

1. Execute the `port-forward` command to expose the PD service:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward -n ${namespace} svc/${cluster_name}-pd 2379:2379
    ```

2. Open a **new** terminal tab or window, enter the directory where `pd-recover` is located, and execute the `pd-recover` command to recover the PD cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    ./pd-recover -endpoints http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cluster-id ${cluster_id} -alloc-id ${alloc_id}
    ```

    In the command above, `${cluster_id}` is the cluster ID got in [Get Cluster ID](#get-cluster-id). `${alloc_id}` is the largest value of `pd_cluster_id` (got in [Get Alloc ID](#get-alloc-id)) multiplied by `100`.

    After the `pd-recover` command is successfully executed, the following result is printed:

    ```shell
    recover success! please restart the PD cluster
    ```

3. Go back to the window where the `port-forward` command is executed, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to stop and exit.

### Restart the PD Pod

1. Delete the PD Pod:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl delete pod ${cluster_name}-pd-0 -n ${namespace}
    ```

> 2. After the Pod is started normally, execute the `port-forward` command to expose the PD service:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. After the Pod is started successfully, execute the `port-forward` command to expose the PD service:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward -n ${namespace} svc/${cluster_name}-pd 2379:2379
    ```

> 3. Open a **new** terminal tab or window, execute the following command to confirm the Cluster ID is the set ID.

Reviewer 2: To make it clearer.
```suggestion
3. Open a **new** terminal tab or window, execute the following command to confirm the Cluster ID is the one got in [Get Cluster ID](#get-cluster-id).
```
